[MUSIC PLAYING]
(DING)
[SOUND EFFECTS]
PAUL LEWIS: Welcome to
this Supercharged TL;DW.
I'm Paul.
If you didn't catch
the livestream
with me [? and Serma ?]
last week,
well, basically we
built a side nav.
Let me show you what we built.
So you've got your standard app
bar here.
You click on this sidebar.
And you click on the
background, or you
can dismiss it with a sort
of drag gesture, like that.
Awesome stuff.
So let me show you
how we built it.
But before we do
that, as usual, we're
going to head over to-- yep,
you guessed it-- Theory Corner!
Join me.
Hello.
Welcome back to Theory Corner.
So this is what we've got.
We've got our page, and we've
got a container element.
The container element is going
to be the home for the side
nav and the background.
What we're going to
do, first of all,
is we're going to put
overflow hidden on this.
And we're going to make it
take up 100% width and height.
So it's got overflow
hidden because this
is going to transform
out to the side,
and we don't want
any scrollbars.
So we put that in place.
The background, we're just
going to transition its opacity
from 0 up to 1.
And we'll set it to have
a transparent black color,
or semi-transparent black
color, in the background.
The other thing is the side nav.
We want this to slide
in from the side,
so we need to have
will-change transform on it
so that it gets its own layer.
Very much like we did
with the swipeable cards.
And then we can
transform it in and out.
We're also going to
need some buttons
for bringing it in and out.
And we're going to have to have
some touch events so that we
can do the dragging stuff.
All cool?
Let's go back to reality!
Welcome back to reality.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Reality.
That's where you'll
find us today.
Pragmatic to the end.
Code.
OK.
So the markup and the
CSS is pretty much
what we discussed
in Theory Corner.
We've gotten a side.
We've got a few JS classes
here so that we can pick it up
in the JavaScript.
But mostly it's pretty
much what you'd expect.
There's a button for closing.
There's a button for opening.
We've got the title
here for the side nav.
And then we've got the list
of the side nav content.
In terms of the CSS, here's what
we've got for the background.
You see it's actually done
with a before pseudo element.
And you can see that it's
got a background of black
with an opacity of 0.4.
We switched on
will-change opacity
because we know we're going
to be changing the opacity,
so we're going to say
will-change opacity.
Didn't say will-change pasty.
That would be a
different thing entirely.
Will-change opacity, and then we
can set a transition of opacity
with that curve.
That looks quite nice.
0.3 seconds.
Nice and quick.
Then the other thing is when
we set the side nav to visible,
which we're going to do
with some JavaScripts,
and we can say to
that before that we
want you to fade up
from an opacity of zero
to an opacity of one.
The same is pretty much
true of the side nav itself.
Here it is.
And you see it's
got a box shadow.
So we've got a nice
little shadow on the side.
The interesting thing is
we have to transform it by,
in my case, 102%, which
sounds really odd.
But the reason is
there's that shadow.
And if you just transform
it 100% to the left,
you still see a little bit of
shadow on the left-hand side.
So if we just take it
a little bit further,
solves that problem.
The interesting
thing about the side
nav itself, the one that
comes in from the side,
is that it has a separate
animatable class.
The reason is I want to
switch that off when they're
doing the drag
motion and have it
on when they're doing
the automated transition
from the side in and out.
So we use this class
to basically say,
this is kind of-- it's doing
the automatic transition,
or when it's off, it's going
to be used for the dragging.
Cool.
The JavaScript is over here.
And it's the same
trick as last time.
A bunch of event handlers
that we bind on with this.
If you haven't
seen why I do that,
go back and watch the
Swipeable Cards TL;DW.
I explain pretty much why I
do this approach to my event
handlers.
You don't have to
take this approach,
but it works pretty
well for what I'm doing.
So we bind all those on.
And you can see here we've
got the show and the hide.
Now, here's an interesting one.
I actually say that if
you click on the side
nav, the containing element, the
container from Theory Corner,
I want you to hide the side nav.
Well, that will work kind of.
But then if you click on
something inside the side nav,
well, that's kind of
weird because you've
clicked on something in side
nav, and it's going to dismiss.
The way we get around
that is we basically
say the side nav itself,
that's going to hide it.
But any clicks
inside, we're going
to call this BlockClicks
function, which
you can find down here.
BlockClicks, all that does
it stops the propagation.
So it's almost like
canceling the event.
Now, you don't want to
do this all the time.
You only want to do it when
it makes sense for your app.
And it makes sense
in my case, I think.
So that's all good.
So I think all
that's really left
is to just have a quick
look at that drag motion.
Now, if you remember, the
drag motion looks like this.
We can click, and we can drag.
And if we just come away
from the side a little bit
and let go, it
dismisses the side nav.
So let's see how
we code that in.
Well, we have our
onTouchStart here.
And basically, because this
is bound to the document,
I basically say if the
side nav isn't open, bail.
Don't hang around.
So we're going to call this any
time somebody hits TouchStart.
But we only want to deal with
this if the side nav happens
to be open.
And what we do, very
much the same kind
of deal as the swipeable cards.
We capture the start
position, and we copy that
across to a current position.
And then in the
TouchMove we basically
figure out how far
we moved, and then we
can apply a transform
in a kind of game loop
and update function,
which you can see here.
There's the translate.
Current [INAUDIBLE] to start.
And then we apply
it as a transform.
If you've seen the
Swipeable Cards,
this is all sounding
very familiar, I'm sure.
But it works.
And it works really well.
The last thing is, on
TouchEnd, we basically say,
if you translate it just
a little bit to the left,
hide the side nav, that
works out really well for us.
One other little
thing to note is
this, in terms of
the OnTouch move,
by default you'll get that
throttle back in Chrome.
So you won't get
them every frame,
unless the very first
TouchMove event has
an event.preventdefault on it.
So what we do is we
calculate the translate.
And we say, if it's
less than zero,
as in you've started to move
it, we prevent the default
and that means it will get
all the updates from then on.
So there you have it.
That's the side nav.
Pretty straightforward
in terms of these things,
but this works really well.
It works at 60 frames a second,
even on a mobile device.
If you haven't caught
the livestream,
again, it's about an hour long.
It's in the description below.
So have a look through that,
and have a watch of that
if you've got a spare hour.
Again, it's the
usual kind of stuff.
You see all the bugs.
You see all the chat.
You see all the discoveries
and the kind of discussion
that [? Serma ?] and I had.
Don't forget to subscribe.
[CLICKING SOUND]
Done.
And I'll catch you next time.
If you, like me, like clicking
on things, you can-- OK.
Hit the Subscribe.
Ha, ha, ha.
And there's the livestream.
[MUSIC PLAYING]